hello thanks for tuning in I'm mark
Weiss hair and makeup artists here in
New York City a lot of my clients will
want to do like a little face frame at
home for their kid and just wondering
they heard of a little thing called
ponytail trimming so I'm here to explain
ponytail trimming it's actually one of
the very easiest things to be able to do
and it also helps to create that little
kind of roundness into a face frame or
into the bangs whichever you prefer but
remember that it is going to be shorter
onto the inside and longer towards the
outside so my model Jana here she's
going to get a little face frame as a
demonstration first thing is I'm going
to section off into four sections we
have straight down the center and then
from behind the ear to behind the ear
just take this back section and pin it
whatever way that makes you feel
comfortable that doesn't get in the way
and then these two sections here into
the front I'm actually going to pull
back together again
and pull straight to the front and I'm
going to make a ponytail with these two
sections together and you want to make
sure to really comb that out get right
there into the root because if you don't
you're gonna have a lot of straggles
make sure you come that all straight out
from the root to get whatever knots and
little things in there out and I'm just
going to bring it right down and I have
a little rubber band that I like to use
that holds very well and securely and
I'm going to put into the rubber band
and I'm going to slide it down to where
I want to trim we're just going to do a
very slight face frame on here as you
see it also can act as a guide so I'm
going to take my shears
and what I like to do not to make any
kind of solid line is I will be point
sniffing which is taking the shears into
an upward motion and just slowly slicing
in and what that's going to do is just
give me a little jagged you know fringe
onto that so that it's not a solid
outline it'll just be a nice wispy
little ends I'm just gonna rock back and
forth just to make sure that that is
even bring it back down go back over
these ends and just remember the center
is going to be a straight line and will
be the shortest well these sides are
traveling and moving in which will keep
that a little bit longer
once you're done take off your rubber
band shake and you have a nice form that
will flow around into the face as a nice
face face frame that technique can also
be used as I mentioned as the bangs a
lot of people right now are doing these
solid bangs that are shorter into the
center and kind of roundabout with the
eyebrows that is another way you can do
that sort of bang trim at home I want to
thank you my name is Mark Weiss
freelance hair and makeup artists here
in New York see you soon
you